So now that we have a pretty good understanding of
how Kinesis Data Streams work, let's try our hands at using them in the demo.
But first, be warned.
This demo is touching AWS services that are not included in the
AWS free tier at the time of the recording.
This means you may end up paying for the resources that you spin up.
So, be sure to remove the resources after you're done playing with this demo
and stop the Python script that I'll have you run when you're finished with
everything. In this demo, we'll imagine that we're working for Globomantics
to process a bunch of sales data for our customers who pay us to manage
ecommerce sites for them.
We'll need to process sales data coming in from our
web API back ends at large scales.
When doing this, we'll want to search for the most popular products by
looking at live analytics on top of the streaming sales data.
In order to make this happen,
we'll first create a Kinesis Data Stream in the AWS Console.
Then, we'll send the data into the stream using a Python script in
Boto3, the AWS SDK for Python. From there, we'll create a Kinesis
Data Analytics application using the AWS Console, and we'll write
some SQL queries in the console in order to interact with the data in
our Kinesis Data Stream.
So, let's move over to the AWS Console and get
started. Over here in the AWS Console,
we can navigate to the Kinesis section if we click the
Services drop‑down and look for Kinesis.
Now this should take us to the management panes for
multiple different Kinesis services, including Kinesis Data Streams,
Kinesis Data Firehose, and Kinesis Data Analytics.
For right now, though,
we're going to click on the left side of the screen here so we can
click into any of these individual services.
Now,
this might look a little bit different for you if you've already
created something inside of Kinesis. Over all though, we're going to
eventually navigate to the Data streams section. Now, in this section,
I'm going to close the window out.
We could create a data stream directly inside of the AWS Console by clicking
Create data stream and setting some information for it.
But, I want to get us started using Python and interacting with the
data stream we create using Python 2, so let's do that first. I'm
going to go over to my VS Code editor here,
and there should be three different files that we'll be using in
order to interact with the Kinesis Data Stream.
Now, to get started, I have a setup.sh file here.
If you wanted to, you could run this on a Linux or a Mac machine,
and it would be able to set up everything,
assuming you've already installed Python 3.
However,
if you're running on a Windows machine and using a terminal
like the command prompt or PowerShell, you might need to run a different command.
So, let's go ahead and follow through with this step by step.
Now inside my terminal here, I'm going to start by running
the first command inside of setup.sh.
This is python3.
In this case, I'm making sure that I'm using the 3 version of Python.
It might be that that's already associated with just the word Python here,
but I want to make sure, so I'll keep the 3 ‑m, which stands for
module, and then I want to use the venv, or virtual environment,
module to create a new virtual environment.
In this case, I'm not going to be very imaginative,
and I'm just going to call it venv for virtual environment.
Now when I do this,
you'll notice that we get a new folder on the left
side of the screen here that appears,
and it has a bunch of different stuff inside of it that'll be a
completely brand‑new Python environment for us to use and also install
our dependencies in to keep everything separate from the global
installations of packages we might otherwise have.
So next, I'm going to close that back out, and let's run the next command,
which is to source this virtual environment.
Now this command is one that's going to vary depending on the operating system
you're using. Inside of my Mac machine or inside of many of Linux machines, you
could run the source venv/bin/activate command,
and this would turn on the virtual environment.
However, if you're in PowerShell,
you're going to need to run a file called Activate.ps1
inside of your PowerShell terminal.
And if you run cmd​.exe on Windows,
you're going to run another file called activate.bat.
So just type out that entire path there.
And if you have any questions about how either of these things work,
I've also included a link on line 6 about how you can use the
virtual environment library with Python 3.
So, now that we've turned on our virtual environment, in any environment,
we should see this (venv) in parentheses on the left of our terminal.
This means that we're using the activated virtual environment. So,
we can install some dependencies inside of it.
In this case,
I'm going to install Boto3 with pip install boto3. Now I'm going to hit Enter,
and this will collect all the packages that I need for it.
Boto3 is the AWS SDK for Python,
and we'll be using it to interact with Kinesis, and we could use
it to interact with many other AWS services.
So now that this is all installed, let me clear this out. And we can
open up Boto3 inside of Python by typing in python.
And in this case, I'm going to use python3 again just so I can get into Python 3,
even though you might be able to type in just python without
the 3 on the end and still get in there.
So, inside of here, let's try importing boto3.
If this works,
this means that we've successfully installed Boto3, and we're able
to use it inside of our virtual environment.
So, now we don't need the setup.sh file anymore.
Instead, we're going to go over to the data.py file. And in the next video, we'll look at how we can use the data.py file to start streaming our data.